- fast forwards to the darkness
[Music]
[Applause]
welcome to slash forward the channel
where we provide summarization and
commentary on all your favorite popular
and obscure horror movies in this video
we're going to take a look at the
lesser-known 1983 slasher sleep-wake him
this was the only directorial credit for
Robert Hiltzik until his direct-to-video
follow-up return to sleepaway camp in
2008 lost in the glut of standard
by-the-numbers slashes in the early 80s
sleepaway camp due to its strong and
novel twist ending was able to rise
above the typical slop and build a loyal
fanbase in subsequent decades remember
that for later that there's a twist
ending about to be spoiled let's check
out the movie
[Music]
[Applause]
we opened with a solid several minutes
of hard for shadowing as we pan across a
now closed camp airlock the grounds are
in disarray and we're treated to
whispers of campers past fading in and
out it's an okay start I guess but an
odd choice for a film that clocks in at
84 minutes credits included anyway the
scene wraps up and we flashback to some
kids enjoying a summer at the lake while
their dad is [ __ ] around with a mini
sailboat they devised a mischievious
plan pushing him into the water and
subsequently capsizing the boat
meanwhile this boating enthusiast
concerned with the possibility of losing
his job over breaking the rules
reluctantly allows his unlicensed
passenger to start driving the boat
despite his initial reservations he
proceeds to fail to point his eyes for
as the new captain takes him on a course
that even if it wasn't headed straight
for a capsized boat is a direct path to
shore you shouldn't trust in your
instincts we get some terrific scream
acting some odd reaction shots and a
floating body in the water smash cut to
the future and we see that both kids
made out okay
psych that's actually Angela and her
cousin Ricky who she went to live with
after the boating accident rot martha
ended up as her primary caregiver for
some reason we come to find out that
Martha is a bit eccentric as the actress
portraying her over acts apart like an
absolute lunatic she confirms through
the subsequent conversation that they're
about to leave for Kim and she has a
surprise for them their physicals cool I
guess
she also lets it slip that as a
physician she completed Angela's on her
own thanks for X positive now please go
away we finally get to camp and watch a
confusing mix of children and adults
moving in droves toward their assigned
cabins this gives us an opportunity to
meet some of the camp staff like Artie
the head chef who promptly and
unapologetically clues us into his most
defining characteristic and the most
disgusting way possible we see some
typical camp stuff and find out that
Ricky is a regular at the camp who used
to have a thing with Judy the movies
main antagonist
unfortunately for Ricky judy has matured
resulting in her desire to focus her
attention primarily on the full grown
men that are patrons of the camp for
some reason angela finds her bunk which
unfortunately is in the same cabin as
judy it fails to endear herself to her
bunk mates by sitting there with a
thousand-yard stare and refusing to talk
to anybody this is her basic MO
throughout most of the movie she's
socially awkward and doesn't participate
in most of the camp activities Ronnie
the head counselor is sympathetic and
tries to see if he can help bring her
out of her shell but does a little more
than two
serve the entire lunch room as he
prances about with this nards on full
display and a face level of the seat of
campers Angela agrees to go back to the
kitchen to see if they can find
something she'd be willing to eat
despite an abundance of warning signs
like Artie's physical appearance main
rhythms and everything he ever says
Ronnie leaves Angela in his care to go
address another problem Artie wastes no
time getting down to the business of
being a disgusting perv each owed and
starts to whip off his belt thankfully
they are interrupted in Angela leaves
allowing us to get right down to the
business of watching Artie die slow
Artie working on the world's tallest
stock pot of boiling corn distracted by
the infuriation of an empty salt
container yeah it's a little shove on
his dirty ass resulting in him taking a
spill while bear hunting 50 gallons of
boiling water he receives a fitting
protracted death as he's still screaming
in agony while being carted off even
after he's been fully bandaged so you
know a lot of time has passed we have to
surmise that he dies because he saw the
killer but there's no mention of this
afterwards so long Artie the owner Mel
shows his true colors when he asks
wanting to ensure that this was both
ruled an accident and brushed under the
rug to avoid scrutiny of the camp he
buys a cooperation of the staff by
promoting ban and giving the rest of the
kitchen workers an extra $50 a week
we're treated to some camp shenanigans
with the old pink-eyed trick haha I made
your face penetrate my anus and then a
good old game of man versus boys
softball
Ricky's counselor goes with a t-shirt up
top sweater on bottom look as were
treated to an inordinately long softball
sequence that doesn't seem to serve any
purpose other than establishing inter
cabin rivalries this leads us to the
evening mixer some of the older boys
lamenting the boy-girl ratio for their
skinny dipping session decide to invite
Angela this sets off Ricky and leads to
a brief scuffle Paul rock hard from the
adrenaline rush decides to throw caution
to the wind and attempt to win Angela's
favor by explaining to her how well he
knows her cousin me and Ricky we go back
a long time we've been best friends for
three years over this is a questionable
tactic but he manages to draw out her
first word
leading to a spontaneous ejaculation and
enraging judy who can't stand to see
anyone having the boys unable to
convince the girls to swim with them
despite repeated begging go off on their
own for a game a wet naked grab-ass
while Kenny separately convinces Leslie
to go boating with him he promptly
demonstrates why he can't be trusted
when he capsizes the boat reveling in
the genius of his plan to continue to
not get laid he chooses to remain in the
boat singing to himself while his
friends leave him behind
he's joined by mysterious midnight
bather who encourages him to practice
holding his breath underwater he doesn't
do a very good job which is evidenced in
the morning when a counselor cleaning up
the dock area in the most surly way
possible finds his body mill continues
to try to influence the police
investigation again concerned with the
camp's image but Ronnie is getting
little uneasy with this bitching tits
bro Judy dominates a volleyball court
while Angela continues to warm up to
Paul judy previously only interested in
men has now decided that she likes
13-year old boys and is infuriated by
the burgeoning relationship Paul manages
to convert an evening trail walk into a
couple of passionate kisses
while inside a simple shaving cream
trick gets real as mozart whips out his
buck knife
the next morning Paul refuses to pump
the brakes on their relationship and
plays the game that's never really fun
it's always a little unnerving Meg
misinterpreting this is a fun and
interesting interaction something that
she does not tolerate as Judy's chief
toady goes to confront Angela Angela
demonstrates the power of ignoring an
[ __ ] driving Meg nuts and resulting
in a physical altercation in the Nick
scene retreated to a classic rooftop
water balloon fight when one of the boys
takes aim at Angela Riki is predictably
set off when the main balloon antagonist
goes off to take he's predictably killed
with bees while they don't pick him
clean he do get a cool shot of him with
a full-on facemask of bees Mel is now
switched gears he acknowledged his
likelihood that a killer is on the loose
and thinks he knows who it is suddenly
making references to the rage monster
Riki I know all I usually get is some
time at the lake where they engage and
some playful greco-roman wrestling when
Paul tries to amp Tang's up we get a
flashback to Angela and her brother
peeping on their two dads and joined an
attender sweaty embrace and then to some
sort of weird interaction between the
two siblings when Angela snaps out of it
she runs off we then observe a game of
capture the flag where judy successfully
drives a wedge between Paul and Angela
by convincing Paul to kiss her later
megan judy unable to deal with the idea
that other people exist and that those
people may find their own pockets of
happiness completely independent of
their circle of influence decide to
ratchet things up and drag Angela to the
lake where they toss her in the
counselors all present and disapproving
after the fact do nothing to prevent
this for some reason as the camp turns
into the Lord of the Flies and now
everything has been put into place for
our final evening at the camp the
counselors get their assignments for the
evening
meg Luck's out gets a free night from
being a [ __ ] we find out oddly that Meg
is a thing from Mel the camp owner
intent on preparing her body for the
evenings coital festivities she goes to
an adjacent empty cabin to avoid the
shower line she does the best job she
can at acting nonchalant while showering
by humming a wretched tune
and trying to remember what one's hands
do when engaged in the act of cleaning
one's body before she's able to get
things figured out she's mercifully
stabbed through the curtain with a knife
getting raked down her back likely
splitting her spinal column open in the
most brutal and painful way imaginable
next we have a sequence of shots that
leads us toward the ultimate conclusion
Paul scores one last chance with Angela
both agreeing to meet down by the shore
Eddie
camping with the youngins leaves to take
back two whiners who are too chilly to
camp out under the night sky no goes
looking for Megan his best cream dress
slacks and interrupts Judy and Mike
causing Mike to decide that the risk
isn't worth putting up with Judy Meg's
dead body decides to fall down and grab
the shower curtain right as milk gets
there gazing upon his beloved looks away
out of respect and then takes a couple
of peaks for later
[Music]
gotta stop him he decides that Ricky
must be the culprit that the best remedy
to the situation is some vigilante
justice Judy gets a visitor who promptly
cold-cocked her and then sticks a hot
curling iron up there we know because
Judy raises her hands in a way that
universally represents genital pain for
women or so I'm told and he gets back to
the campground to find the remains of
the kids he left behind hatcheted to
pieces Mel catches up with Ricky and
gives him a good slap at him poundin
then runs off and realizes he's pummeled
the wrong child as he gets an arrow
through the throat from the real killer
the adults now meet up and then disperse
to go find the killer we discover
Ricky's still alive and then find Angela
and Paul naked on the beach we get a
quick flashback to reveal that Angela's
crazy aunt already having a son raises
Angela as a girl even though she the
sole survivor of the boating accident
was actually a boy this leased the
phenomenal reveal that Angela has
actually decapitated Paul and that she's
swinging meat on the beach as she hisses
at the Gawker's a scene that drags out
for longer than one would expect it has
likely kept perfectly still to ensure
the Matt's lineup which only serves to
add to the unusual and unsettling nature
of the scene
[Music]
and that sleep-wake you a movie that
could have been ignored as a
run-of-the-mill slasher but first
willingness to interject what were at
the time more taboo subjects that
provided more substantial content than
the typical fare of slasher motivations
the social awkwardness abusive
upbringing and sexual confusion also
give much more solid footing for
explaining why Angela eventually parted
from reality in such a significant way
other movies from the time tended to try
to justify mass killings as a result of
the killer being mildly bullied or being
insulted publicly in class or something
equally thin as a result they risk being
completely forgettable which is
certainly not the case for sleep-wake
him as an interesting side note I
intended the convention once were
Jonathan tears Tim the actor who played
Ricky conducted a panel discussion he
said that he adamantly opposed the use
of the cowboy hat in the dance sequence
but the director insisted he wear it as
you watched the movie various costume
you choices including the infamous cops
- seems somewhat questionable it appears
as though these were elements of the
movie that Robert Hiltzik felt very
strongly about for some reason it's
interesting to imagine that what
appeared to be slipshod choices from a
cheap movie actually represent a fully
realized idea held by the director
regarding how kids at the time dressed
and interacted with each other and that
sleepaway camp I hope you enjoyed the
video thank you for watching
[Music]